---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

## Questions for Danna

1) What is the most valuable thing you took from your NYU education that you feel is most helpful day-to-day as a professional working in technology?

2) What percent of the workday do you spend on things that you genuinely enjoy/are interested on working on?

3) What are your most/least favorite parts of working at a huge and prestigious tech company like Google?

## Progress on group projects

This week we solidified the nature of the contribution we intend to make on brackets and began planning the extension that we are going to build. Half of the group plans to work on bug fixes while myself, Jyo, and Dayo plan to work on an extension that generates color schemes and helps you refactor your css files quickly and effectively to swap in and out new color templates.

At a minimum, we would like to have an in-application extension that allows one to pick a color and then a set of corresponding colors that match well will be generated with their hex codes. We anticipate this being a pretty simple task, with the hard part being actually getting an extension to run within brackets. Once we have this minimum project accomplished, which we hope to finish over the course of the coming week, we can add functionality that expedites incorporating these changes into your code.

## Contributions

I made no additional contributions this week.

## Open Data Week

The makeup event for Talk Data To Me is this week, and I will be attending on Thursday.