---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

## Team Project Progress

This week we continued to work on our project, moving towards the final phases of developing our extension. Because the initial division of labor had me working on a feature that might be a bit of a reach given our knowledge of the application, I shifted my focus to integrating our application into the brackets editor.

This week I was able to get our UI to display in the text editor and begin responding to user events. Now it will be a simple matter to develop the backend to generate the color themes based on user input and alter the UI to display these themes. I pushed the code to the master branch of our repository for these changes.

## Project License

The code for our extension is not directly part of the Brackets code-base, so it is not subject to the same license as the code hosted in the Adobe/Brackets repository.

The main Brackets application uses the MIT license, which is a short permissive license. It allows one to do pretty much whatever they want with the code, including use, modification, merging, publication, copying, distributing, sublicensing, and/or selling copies of the software. The one restriction is that the original license and copyright notice is included in all copies of the software.

The license also indicates that the software is provided "as is", and that the developer cannot be held liable for damages associated with the software.

There is nothing in the brackets documentation that indicates the type of license that extensions developed for the Brackets core software are subject to. We initially attached the Apache License 2.0, but decided to change to the MIT license just to maintain the same licensing setup as the main Brackets software, which seemed a logical step to take.