---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

## Team Planning

### Strengths and Weaknesses

I'm still getting to know my teammates, so I think our strengths and weaknesses will become much more apparent in the coming weeks. I think we all have some firsthand experience coding outside of the classroom, which will hopefully give us a good headstart on working with the Brackets codebase. Most of us have taken AIT or worked on web applications outside of school, and Brackets is essentially a web app that runs within a native shell.

I think the our biggest weakness is that there might be a steep learning curve in understanding the code enough to start actually working with it. In my experience getting on board new projects, I've always had people nearby to very quickly respond to any questions I have. Given the nature of open-source, I don't anticipate having such constant and consistent feedback.

### Weekly Meetings

As a group we agreed to have our primary meeting time Tuesdays from 5-7 Pm and our secondary meeting time Thursdays from 5-7 Pm.

### Milestones

Here are some milestones we should achieve that will have us on the way to successfully contributing to our selected project.

#### 1

Take some time to get to know the basic application as an end-user. Just start writing and editing some code within Brackets and getting a feel for some of its more unique features.

#### 2

Start reading the documentation that is available on the Brackets website and the github repo. Try to foster a basic understanding of the overall structure of the application.

#### 3

Clone the repository to our local devices and start familiarizing ourselves with the codebase.

#### 4

Look for some closed issues that seem simple based on their description and look at the fixes that were produced as solutions. I think that looking at solutions is a good way to both become more knowledgable about the codebase.

#### 5

Look for some open issues that look suitable for our skill level.

## Open Data Week Events

### Talk Data To Me (Wed - 6:30-8:00Pm)

I plan to attend the Talk Data To Me showcase being presented by General Assembly. The event will feature four data science experts speaking on how data science is currently being employed and where it will go in the future.

### Data Through Design Art Exhibit (Wed - 9am-7pm)

I also plan to go to the Data Through Design Art Exhibit. The exhibit will feature installations meant to highlight interesting and useful patterns that emerge from open datasets.

