---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

This week we were asked to both begin tracking problems via the site CodeTriage and to start reporting and fixing bugs that were created on the class website.

## Course Website Debugging

I was a little late to the game in claiming bug fixes, so I am still waiting to have a bug assigned for me to handle. I expressed by desire to claim a few issues.

1) A typo in a link to a [resource](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/63). I also reported this issue.

2) Information is missing regarding tutoring in the class resources section of the site. [Link to issue](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/45).

3) An improperly labelled link that also links to the wrong portion of a page. [Link to issue](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/23).

When I am assigned one of these issues I will execute the fix and update my blog with a description of the process.

## Following Projects on Code Triage

The first project I subscribed to on CodeTriage was Pandas, which is a, "Flexible and powerful data analysis / manipulation library for Python, providing labeled data structures similar to R data.frame objects, statistical functions, and much more" -[Pandas Repo](https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas). I think I may have made a mistake in choosing to follow this project given the complexity of the project. Still, the issues I am seeing are pretty interesting.

One in particular that stood out, a user had a complaint that when reading a tab-separated data file, the pandas method read_csv() created a memory overflow that caused the user's machine to crash. Those responding to the issue seemed skeptical that the problem was with Pandas rather than the problem arising from a malformed data file. The issue was from last Spring, and conversation regarding it stalled for several months until August when someone responded that they needed more information from the user to approach solving the problem. There was no response afterward. The whole back and forth really illustrated how communal a process it is to address many of these problems.

I also subscribed to triage the Brackets editor open-source project. One issue I examined was in regards to the program freezing when trying to preview a large image within the code editor. [Link to Issue](https://github.com/adobe/brackets/issues/14117). There was no conversation regarding the issue. The reporter of the issue was able to reproduce it on Windows 7 and 10, but when I tried to reproduce the problem on OS X El Capitan I had no problems. I tried with an image of a similar size to the one originally reported and a much larger image and still had no problems. I commented my experiences and included the Brackets version I was running and my Operating System.